The President: Hi, everybody.
This weekend, our hearts are
with the people of
San Bernardino-another American
community shattered by
unspeakable violence.
We salute the first
responders-the police,
the SWAT teams, the EMTs-who
responded so quickly,
with such courage, and saved
lives.
We pray for the injured as
they fight to recover from
their wounds.
Most of all, we stand with
14 families whose hearts are
broken.
We're learning more about
their loved ones-the men and
women, the beautiful lives,
that were lost.
They were doing what so many
of us do this time of
year-enjoying the holidays.
Celebrating with each other.
Rejoicing in the bonds of
friendship and community
that bind us together, as
Americans.
Their deaths are an absolute
tragedy,
not just for San Bernardino,
but for our country.
We're also learning more
about the killers.
And we're working to get a
full picture of their
motives-why they committed
these revolting acts.
It's important to let the
investigators do their job.
We need to know all the
facts.
And at my direction, federal
law enforcement is helping
in every way that they can.
We're going to get to the
bottom of this.
It is entirely possible that
these two attackers were
radicalized to commit this
act of terror.
And if so, it would
underscore a threat we've
been focused on for
years-the danger of people
succumbing to violent
extremist ideologies.
We know that ISIL and other
terrorist groups are
actively encouraging
people-around the world and
in our country-to commit
terrible acts of violence,
often times as lone wolf
actors.
And even as we work to
prevent attacks,
all of us-government, law
enforcement, communities,
faith leaders-need to work
together to prevent people
from falling victim to these
hateful ideologies.
More broadly, this tragedy
reminds us of our obligation
to do everything in our
power, together,
to keep our communities
safe.
We know that the killers in
San Bernardino used
military-style assault
weapons-weapons of war-to
kill as many people as they
could.
It's another tragic reminder
that here in America it's
way too easy for dangerous
people to get their hands on
a gun.
For example, right now,
people on the No-Fly list
can walk into a store and
buy a gun.
That is insane.
If you're too dangerous to
board a plane,
you're too dangerous, by
definition, to buy a gun.
And so I'm calling on
Congress to close this
loophole, now.
We may not be able to
prevent every tragedy,
but-at a bare minimum-we
shouldn't be making it so
easy for potential
terrorists or criminals to
get their hands on a gun
that they could use against
Americans.
Today in San Bernardino,
investigators are searching
for answers.
Across our country, our law
enforcement professionals
are tireless.
They're working around the
clock-as always-to protect
our communities.
As President, my highest
priority is the security and
safety of the American
people.
This is work that should
unite us all-as Americans-so
that we're doing everything
in our power to defend our
country.
That's how we can honor the
lives we lost in
San Bernardino.
That's how we can send a
message to all those who
would try to hurt us.
We are Americans.
We will uphold our values-a
free and open society.
We are strong.
And we are resilient.
And we will not be
terrorized.